content/authors/admin/_index.md, before:

---
# Display name
name: Cesar Conejo Villalobos

# Username (this should match the folder name)
authors:
- admin

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: true

# Role/position
role: Graduate Student/Data Scientist

# Organizations/Affiliations
## organizations:
## - name: University of Costa Rica
##  url: "http://www.emate.ucr.ac.cr/"

# Short bio (displayed in user profile at end of posts)
bio: My research interests include anomaly detection, imbalanced data, and fraud detection.

interests:
- Machine Learning.
- Statistics.
- Causal Inference.
- Operational Research.
- Reproducible workflow.
- Data democratization.

education:
  courses:
#  - course: PhD in Actuarial Sciences and Mathematical Finances
#    institution: University of Toronto
#    year: 2027
  - course: M.S. Statistics for Data Science
    institution: University Carlos III of Madrid
    year: 2020 - Present


  - course: B.S. in Actuarial Sciences
    institution: University of Costa Rica
    year: 2014

# Social/Academic Networking
# For available icons, see: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/page-builder/#icons
#   For an email link, use "fas" icon pack, "envelope" icon, and a link in the
#   form "mailto:your-email@example.com" or "#contact" for contact widget.
social:
- icon: envelope
  icon_pack: fas
  link: '#contact'  # For a direct email link, use "mailto:test@example.org".
- icon: linkedin
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/cesar-conejo-villalobos-60094056/
- icon: stack-overflow
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://stackoverflow.com/users/13116888/cesar-conejo?tab=profile
- icon: github
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://github.com/cconejov
- icon: cv
  icon_pack: ai
  link: /files/CV_Cesar_En.pdf
# Link to a PDF of your resume/CV from the About widget.
# To enable, copy your resume/CV to `static/files/cv.pdf` and uncomment the lines below.
# - icon: cv
#   icon_pack: ai
#   link: files/cv.pdf

# Enter email to display Gravatar (if Gravatar enabled in Config)
email: ""

# Organizational groups that you belong to (for People widget)
#   Set this to `[]` or comment out if you are not using People widget.
user_groups:
- Researchers
- Visitors
---

Hello! I am Cesar Conejo Villalobos, and I am an actuary who graduated from the [University of Costa Rica](http://www.emate.ucr.ac.cr/) with five years of experience in the bank and finance industry. Along this path, I have learned and applied different techniques in backend and frontend data science, especially in data storage infrastructure, efficient computing, data analysis, and prediction algorithms focused on fraud detection using SQL and R.

I am also a history and philosophy lover, a passion that I try to mix up with data science. The most useful thing that I have learned from history is that is not much use to make predictions and calculations in the medium and long term. The world always goes on its own business! In the end, things and situations that are unpredictable or very difficult to occurs can appear, resulting in the analysis being out of date. So, What we can do in this world of chaos? Well, in my case, I consider that the best thing we can do is to quantify the uncertainty with probability. =)

During the 2020-2021 academic year, I am a master's student in the program [Statistics for Data Science](https://www.uc3m.es/master/statistics-data-science) at [University Carlos III of Madrid](https://www.uc3m.es/home). At this moment, I just finished all my courses and I am working on my final thesis project for finishing up the program.

My thesis is based on applying Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), a popular Deep Learning framework used for detecting patterns, especially in images and photos. But, instead of analyzing photos, I am applying the CNNs in the context of statistical inference on high-dimensional data and Multiple Hypothesis testing.

Commit message:

Update cv and master thesis

content/authors/admin/_index.md, after:

---
# Display name
name: Cesar Conejo Villalobos

# Username (this should match the folder name)
authors:
- admin

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: true

# Role/position
role: Graduate Student/Data Scientist

# Organizations/Affiliations
## organizations:
## - name: University of Costa Rica
##  url: "http://www.emate.ucr.ac.cr/"

# Short bio (displayed in user profile at end of posts)
bio: My research interests include anomaly detection, imbalanced data, and fraud detection.

interests:
- Machine Learning.
- Statistical Learning.
- Causal Inference.
- Operational Research.
- Reproducible workflows.
- Data democratization.
- Coffee.

education:
  courses:
#  - course: PhD in Actuarial Sciences and Mathematical Finances
#    institution: University of Toronto
#    year: 2027
  - course: M.S. Statistics for Data Science
    institution: Carlos III University of Madrid
    year: 2021


  - course: B.S. in Actuarial Sciences
    institution: University of Costa Rica
    year: 2014

# Social/Academic Networking
# For available icons, see: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/page-builder/#icons
#   For an email link, use "fas" icon pack, "envelope" icon, and a link in the
#   form "mailto:your-email@example.com" or "#contact" for contact widget.
social:
- icon: envelope
  icon_pack: fas
  link: '#contact'  # For a direct email link, use "mailto:test@example.org".
- icon: linkedin
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/cesar-conejo-villalobos-60094056/
- icon: stack-overflow
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://stackoverflow.com/users/13116888/cesar-conejo?tab=profile
- icon: github
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://github.com/cconejov
- icon: cv
  icon_pack: ai
  link: /files/CV_Cesar_En.pdf
# Link to a PDF of your resume/CV from the About widget.
# To enable, copy your resume/CV to `static/files/cv.pdf` and uncomment the lines below.
# - icon: cv
#   icon_pack: ai
#   link: files/cv.pdf

# Enter email to display Gravatar (if Gravatar enabled in Config)
email: ""

# Organizational groups that you belong to (for People widget)
#   Set this to `[]` or comment out if you are not using People widget.
user_groups:
- Researchers
- Visitors
---

Hello! I am Cesar Conejo Villalobo. I have a major in actuarial sciences from the [University of Costa Rica](http://www.emate.ucr.ac.cr/) and a master's degree in [Statistics for Data Science](https://www.uc3m.es/master/statistics-data-science) at [Carlos III University of Madrid](https://www.uc3m.es/home), Spain. Additionally, I have five and a half years of experience in the bank and finance industry. Along this path, I have learned and applied different back-end and front-end data science techniques, especially in data storage infrastructure, efficient computing, data analysis, and prediction algorithms focused on fraud detection using SQL and R.

I am also a history and philosophy lover, a passion I try to mix with data science. The most helpful thing that I have learned from history is that it is not much use to make predictions and calculations in the medium and long term. The world always goes on its own business! In the end, things and situations that are unpredictable or very difficult to occurs can appear, resulting in the analysis being out of date. So, What can we do in this world of chaos? In my case, I consider that the best thing we can do is quantify the uncertainty with probability. =)
